The Fourier transform is invertible.
This means we can modify a Fourier transform and then
take the inverse Fourier transform to get out our signal in the time domain.
Let's see this by recreating our original noisy signal,
and now let's make a copy of that Fourier transform.
This time we'll remove all the frequency components that are not two or three hertz.
When we plot this, we can see that
our Fourier transform has these nice sharp spikes at two and three hertz,
and that all the noise in the other frequencies has been removed.
Now let's go backwards and use the inverse Fourier
transform to get out our time domain signal.
We'll first plot the sum of two sinusoids without any noise.
Then we'll plot the input signal that we originally took the Fourier transform of,
and then we'll plot our output signal,
which is the result of this inverse Fourier transform
after removing the noise frequencies from the Fourier transform.
Here we see that our output signal looks exactly the
same as an ideal sum of two sinusoids without any noise.
So that process of removing
the noise frequencies basically removed all the noise out in the time domain as well.
Now let's change these frequencies again.
We'll make the first sinusoid at 2.15 hertz and the next one at 2.95 hertz.
We'll go through the same process,
where we take the Fourier transform and remove frequencies that are noise frequencies.
When we do this, we can see that
our output signal isn't too similar to what we would expect to get.
This is because this method of removing frequencies in
the Fourier transform and then taking the inverse Fourier transform,
is not the best way to remove frequencies that we don't want in our signal.
Typically, what we'll do in this class is use a band-pass filter.
We can use SciPy to implement a band-pass filter.
Basically, what it does is it removes all frequencies outside of our pass-band.
So in this case, we'll set our pass-band from 1-4 hertz.
This way, the frequencies that we want to keep,
which are 2.15 and 2.95 hertz are well within the pass-band.
Now when we plot our output signal,
we can see that our output signal,
while still not exactly the same,
is closer than the original method.
In this course, we'll always band-pass filter our signals before we process them.